What is Economics
	Economics is a social science on how economic agents choose to allocate the scarce resources optimally.
Microeconomics
	Individuals/Firms
	The study of behavior of individuals and firms in markets
	Demand, supply, elasticity of demand, market equilibrium and market structures
Macroeconomics
	Entire Economy
	The Study of behavior of entire economy at national, regional, and global level
	GDP, unemployment, inflation, economic growth
Two big questions
	What, how and for whom goods and services are produced?
	Do choices made in the pursuit of self-interest
Q1
	What to produce? Varies among economies, countries and over time
	Market Economy
		Companies, individuals, business control what they produce
		Voting by their $
		Producers decide what to produce based on sales and sale of products
	Command economy
		Government tells what to produce and how much
			North Korea
			USSR
			China
		
	Mixed Economy
		Both market forces and government choose what is produced
			Market Forces prevail
			Government controls the flow of money
				US
				China
	How to produce? factors of production
		Land
			Any natural resources used to produce goods and services (timber, coal, precious material, water...)
				Can be renewable or non renewable
			The income that resource owners earn in return for land is called rent
		Labor
			The efforts people contribute to the population of goods and services. (not simply the physical efforts, but refer to the skills and abilities to produce).
			The income earned by labor resources is called wage and is the largest source of income for most people.
		Capital
			Final goods produced for use in further production (building, machine, tool)
			The income earned by owners of capital resources is interest.
			Is money a type of capital?
				Not capital not a produced resource
		Entrepreneurship
			Provide innovation and creativity in the use of the other factors
			The payment to entrepreneurship is profit
Q2
	Self-interest is when individuals make decisions that are their own best interest
	Social-interest is when choices are made that benefit society 
	do choices mad in the pursuit of self-interest also prompt the social interest?
	Invisible Hand
		Self-interest aligns social-interest
		